Automation introduction post (#10)
skodjob/blog: posts/automation/automation-intro.md

post_status: publish
post_excerpt: If you are interested in cool technologies for DevOps and automation like Ansible, Tekton, or ArgoCD, check out this introduction to our project.
featured_image: _images/automation.jpg
author: dkornel
taxonomy:
    category:
        - automation

---

## What is the automation-hub

> Simplified answer is that [automation-hub](https://github.com/skodjob/automation-hub) is a collection of [ansible](https://www.ansible.com/) automation scrips, [kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simple answer is that [automation-hub](https://github.com/skodjob/automation-hub) is a collection of [ansible](https://www.ansible.com/) scripts, [kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/)
```

> deployment and configuration files, [Tekton](https://tekton.dev/) pipelines an [ArgoCD](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) applications and application-sets. Let's talk about used technologies,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deployment and configuration files, [Tekton](https://tekton.dev/) pipelines, and [ArgoCD](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) applications and application-sets.

> why and how we use it for our work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's quite a very long list of used tools within the repository and we don't even mention jinja2 templates for example! However, there is a good reason for it and we will try to take a closer look on all of them.
```

### Kubernetes

> Kubernetes is known as the best way to orchestrate containerized applications. It provides scalability, reliability and many more features for applications running on top of the kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes is known as the best way to orchestrate containerized applications. It provides scalability, reliability, monitoring, and many more features for applications running on top of Kubernetes cluster.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes is known as the only reasonable way to orchestrate containerized applications in a large scale. It provides scalability, reliability and many more features for applications running on top of the kubernetes.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes is known as the only reasonable way to orchestrate containerized applications in a large scale. It provides scalability, reliability and many more features for applications running on top of the kubernetes.
```

> In our case we use enterprise implementation of kubernetes called [Openshift](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/cloud-computing/openshift/container-platform). That was just brief explanation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our case we are using enterprise implementation of Kubernetes called [Openshift](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/cloud-computing/openshift/container-platform). 
```

> that kubernetes is the platform for running containerized applications, and now the question "Why we use it"? Answer is simple

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That was just a simple introduction of Kubernetes - it is a platform for running containerized applications. We don't want to do any deep dive into Kubernetes in this blog post so if you are interested in it we suggest to read any other blogs, you will find plenty of them. 

Now let's try to answer the question "Why we use it in scope of our experiments"? Answer is simple
```

Reviewer 3: That was just a **brief** introduction of Kubernetes - it

> "We use kubernetes, because we work as **QA** and applications which we put under test are targeted to kubernetes."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"We use Kubernetes, because we work as **Quality Engineers** and the applications which we put under test are targeted to Kubernetes."
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
"We use kubernetes, because we work as **QA** and applications which we put to the test are targeted to kubernetes."
```

### Ansible

> Do you know the situations when you have many automation scripts written in bash or powershell and you start loosing mind

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do you know the situations when you have many automation scripts written in `bash` or `powershell` and you start loosing mind
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Do you know the situations when you have many automation scripts written in bash or powershell and you start loosing your mind
```

in a bunch of `$` or `sed` expressions? We know how frustrating can be debugging shell script or running them on the remote machine.

> But there is a better way which is `Ansible`. Ansible is a declarative way how to write automation scrips in yaml format, which also allows you to use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thankfully, there is a tool that can makes your life much easier - `Ansible`. Ansible is a declarative way how to write automation scrips in yaml format, which also allows you to use
```

Reviewer 3: +1

> libraries with already implemented automation for many components, so you do not need re-invent the wheel. Because initial installation path

Reviewer: ```suggestion
libraries with already implemented steps and tasks that interacts with many components, so you do not need re-invent the wheel. Because the initial installation path
```

Reviewer 2: interacts -> interact

of our environment requires a lot of steps, Ansible it the correct way to deduplicate steps, create a templates in `jinja` and drive

> execution based on tags. We are able to run Ansible playbook on provided kubernetes cluster, and it deploys the whole

Reviewer: ```suggestion
execution based on tags. We are able to run Ansible playbook on provided Kubernetes cluster, and it deploys the whole
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
execution based on tags. We are able to run Ansible playbook on provided kubernetes cluster, and deploy the whole
```

testing infrastructure including multi-cluster environment with all needed operators and tools (we will talk about all of these stuff in upcoming posts). 

### Tekton

> There are many ways where to run CI/CD pipelines. You surely know systems like Gitlab-CI, Jenkins or TeamCity. Tekton is also CI/CD system,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many ways where and how to run CI/CD pipelines. You surely know systems like Gitlab-CI, Jenkins or TeamCity. Tekton is also CI/CD system,
```

> but it has an advantage which is really important for us, it is `cloud-native`. That means it is implemented to run on top of kubernetes, and it is driven by resources written in yaml.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but it has an advantage which is really important for us - it is `cloud-native`. That means it is implemented to run on top of Kubernetes, and it is defined by resources written in yaml format.
```

I am not sure if my interpretation is correct

> Tekton pipeline resource allows you to split steps you want to run into different container images, it can save you
> resources needed for running pipeline, and also you do not need to build large container image with all required tools installed. Let me
> present it on simple example. Imagine pipeline, which does api request using `curl` and then run `maven`, the first step can be done in a
> simple small container just with curl installed and the maven one step can run in different container with java and maven installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tekton pipeline resource allows you to split steps you want to run between different containers with different base images. It can save you
resources needed for running pipeline, and also you do not need to build large container image with all required tools installed. Let me
explain it on simple example. Imagine pipeline, which does an API request using `curl` and then run `maven` command. The first step can be done in a
simple small container just with `curl` installed and `maven` step could run in different container with Java and maven installed.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tekton pipeline resource allows you to split steps you want to run into different container images, it can save you
resources needed for running pipeline, and also you do not need to build large container image with all required tools installed. Let me
present it on simple example. Imagine pipeline, which does api request using `curl` and then execute `maven`, the first step can be done in a
simple small container just with curl installed and the maven one step can run in different container with java and maven installed.
```

> We use Tekton CI/CD mainly for continuous check of deployed environment and system under test, also for trigger kubernetes cluster updates and many more
> day to day operational stuff.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use Tekton CI/CD mainly for continuous check of deployed environment and system under test, also for triggering Kubernetes cluster upgrades, and many more
day to day operations.
```

### ArgoCD
All previous technologies were mostly about platform and DevOps practices, but now let's move to another buzzword `GitOps`.

> ArgoCD is GitOps tool for deployment kubernetes applications from declarations stored in SCM. Basically if someone put changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ArgoCD is GitOps tool for deploying Kubernetes applications from declarations stored in SCM. Basically if someone put changes
```

> of application configuration into git repository, ArgoCD gets this changes and apply them to target kubernetes cluster. All our

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of application configuration into git repository, ArgoCD gets this changes and apply them to target Kubernetes cluster. All our
```

> systems under tests are stored in [deployment-hub](https://github.com/skodjob/deployment-hub) repository and ArgoCD takes care about distributing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
systems under test definitions are stored in [deployment-hub](https://github.com/skodjob/deployment-hub) repository and ArgoCD takes care about distributing
```

post_status: publish
post_excerpt: If you are interested in cool technologies for DevOps and automation like Ansible, Tekton, or ArgoCD, check out this introduction to our project.
featured_image: _images/automation.jpg
author: dkornel
taxonomy:
    category:
        - automation

---

## What is the automation-hub
Simple answer is that [automation-hub](https://github.com/skodjob/automation-hub) is a collection of [Ansible](https://www.ansible.com/) scripts, [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) deployment and configuration files, [Tekton](https://tekton.dev/) pipelines, and [ArgoCD](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) applications and application-sets.
That's quite a very long list of used tools within the repository, and we don't even mention jinja2 templates for example!
However, there is a good reason for it and we will try to take a closer look on all of them.

### Kubernetes

> Kubernetes is known as the only reasonable way to orchestrate containerized applications in a large scale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes is known as one of the best way to orchestrate containerized applications in a large scale.
```

It provides scalability, reliability, monitoring and many more features for applications running on top of the Kubernetes cluster.
In our case we are using enterprise implementation of Kubernetes called [Openshift](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/cloud-computing/openshift/container-platform).
That was just a brief introduction of Kubernetes - it is a platform for running containerized applications.
We don't want to do any deep dive into Kubernetes in this blog post so if you are interested in it, we suggest to read any other blogs, you will find plenty of them.

> Now let's try to answer the question "Why we use it in scope of our experiments"?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now let's try to answer the question "Why we use it in the scope of our experiments"?
```

Answer is simple "We use Kubernetes, because we work as **QA** and the applications, which we put under test, are targeted to Kubernetes."

### Ansible
Do you know the situations when you have many automation scripts written in `bash` or `powershell` and you start loosing your mind in a bunch of `$` or `sed` expressions?
We know how frustrating can be debugging shell script or running them on the remote machine.

> Thankfully, there is a tool that can makes your life much easier - `Ansible`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thankfully, there is a tool that can make your life much easier - `Ansible`.
```

> Ansible is a declarative way how to write automation scrips in yaml format, which also allows you to use libraries with already implemented steps and tasks that interact with many components, so you do not need re-invent the wheel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ansible is a declarative way how to write automation scrips in yaml format, which also allows you to use libraries with already implemented steps and tasks that interact with many components, so you do not need to re-invent the wheel.
```

> Because the initial installation path of our environment requires a lot of steps, Ansible it the correct way to deduplicate steps, create a templates in `jinja` and drive execution based on tags.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because the initial installation path of our environment requires a lot of steps, Ansible is the correct way to deduplicate steps, create a templates in `jinja` and drive execution based on tags.
```

We are able to run Ansible playbook on provided Kubernetes cluster, and deploy the whole testing infrastructure including multi-cluster environment with all needed operators and tools (we will talk about all of these stuff in upcoming posts). 

### Tekton
There are many ways where and how to run CI/CD pipelines.
You surely know systems like Gitlab-CI, Jenkins or TeamCity.
Tekton is also CI/CD system, but it has an advantage which is really important for us - it is `cloud-native`.
That means it is implemented to run on top of Kubernetes, and it is defined by resources written in yaml format.
Tekton pipeline resource allows you to split steps you want to run between different containers with different base images.
It can save you resources needed for running pipeline, and also you do not need to build large container image with all required tools installed.

> Let me explain it on simple example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let me explain it on a simple example.
```

> Imagine pipeline, which does an API request using `curl` and then execute `maven` command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Imagine pipeline, which does an API request using `curl` and then executes `maven` command.
```

The first step can be done in a simple small container just with `curl` installed and `maven` step could run in different container with Java and maven installed.

We use Tekton CI/CD mainly for continuous check of deployed environment and system under test, also for triggering Kubernetes cluster upgrades, and many more day-to-day operations.

### ArgoCD
All previous technologies were mostly about platform and DevOps practices, but now let's move to another buzzword `GitOps`.
ArgoCD is GitOps tool for deploying Kubernetes applications from declarations stored in SCM.

> Basically if someone put changes of application configuration into git repository, ArgoCD gets this changes and apply them to target kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Basically if someone puts changes of application configuration into git repository, ArgoCD gets this changes and applies them to target Kubernetes cluster.
```
